# Zillow HPI Project

### Overview

In this project, we will import data from [Zillow](https://www.zillow.com/research/data/) to analyze patterns in residential real estate values across various geographies. The Zillow Home Value Index (ZHVI) is one example of a housing price index (HPI), which tracks relative price changes in residential real estate over time across varying geographies and frequencies. There are many different ways to derive such HPIs from real estate transaction data. For example, a simple approach is to just use the median home sale in a particular region over a particular time period. However, typically one would want to at least use a "repeat sales" methodology, where housing returns are estimated from properties that sell multiple times over the data lifespan. In other words, properties with only one sale do not have sufficient information to tell us anything about how prices are changing over time. Some HPIs have an arbitrary starting value (typically normalized to equal 100 on a particular date), and then show how that value would compound as time moves on. The HPIs published by the Federal Housing Finance Agency ([FHFA HPIS](https://www.fhfa.gov/DataTools/Downloads/Pages/House-Price-Index-Datasets.aspx)) are formatted that way. However, since the ZHVI more precisely aims to capture the "typical" home value for a region during each time period, the units have a bit more interpretable value. Although, in either case, it is more statistically appropriate to make comparisons of housing returns, rather than property values or HPI levels.

### Repository Structure

The data work for this project demo is contained in the R Notebook directory of this repository. On GitHub, the webpage should display the README.md file, which contains the compiled output of the R Notebook. If you wish to explore the source code locally, then you can open the zhvicomps.Rmd file in RStudio and execute the code chunks to replicate the data work. Note the `output: html_notebook` line in the header of that file, which indicates that the R Markdown document is an R Notebook. 

After exploring the R Notebook and making any desired changes, you can then create a copy that will appear on GitHub. To do this, save a copy of the R Notebook and name it README.Rmd. Then, change the header line to `output: github_document`, which will switch the file from being an R Notebook to an R Markdown file that will compile into a generic [Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/) file (.md). This format (along with the README name) will automatically be recognized by GitHub and displayed in-browser. This will also replace the Preview button with an option to Knit the Markdown file. This knitting process will re-run all the code chunks and generate a new README.md file inside of the R Notebook folder, which will display on GitHub.
